# Sending toast notifications from desktop apps sample
## Requires
- Visual Studio 2012
## License
- MS-LPL
## Technologies
- Win32
## Topics
- User Interface
## Updated
- 10/17/2013
## Description

<div id="mainSection">
<p>This sample demonstrates how a desktop app can display a toast notification and respond to events generated by the user's interaction (or lack of interaction) with the toast.
</p>
<p>The sample shows the metrics involved in the following scenarios: </p>
<ul>
<li>Adding an item to a list </li><li>Bringing a new page onto the screen </li></ul>
<p></p>
<p class="note"><b>Note</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;The Windows Samples Gallery contains a variety of code samples that exercise the various new programming models, platforms, features, and components available in Windows&nbsp;8.1 and/or Windows Server&nbsp;2012&nbsp;R2. These downloadable samples
 are provided as compressed ZIP files that contain a Visual Studio solution (SLN) file for the sample, along with the source files, assets, resources, and metadata necessary to successfully compile and run the sample. For more information about the programming
 models, platforms, languages, and APIs demonstrated in this sample, please refer to the guidance, tutorials, and reference topics provided in the Windows&nbsp;8.1 documentation available in the Windows Developer Center. This sample is provided as-is in order to
 indicate or demonstrate the functionality of the programming models and feature APIs for Windows&nbsp;8.1 and/or Windows Server&nbsp;2012&nbsp;R2. Please provide feedback on this sample!</p>
<p>To obtain an evaluation copy of Windows&nbsp;8.1, go to <a href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=301696">
Windows&nbsp;8.1</a>.</p>
<p>To obtain an evaluation copy of Microsoft Visual Studio&nbsp;2013, go to <a href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=301697">
Visual Studio&nbsp;2013</a>.</p>
<h3><a id="related_topics"></a>Related topics</h3>
<dl><dt><a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/hh802768">Quickstart: Sending a toast notification from the desktop</a>
</dt><dt><a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/hh802762">How to enable desktop toast notifications through an AppUserModelID</a>
</dt></dl>
<h3>Operating system requirements</h3>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Client</th>
<td><dt>Windows&nbsp;8.1 </dt></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Server</th>
<td><dt>Windows Server&nbsp;2012&nbsp;R2 </dt></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3>Build the sample</h3>
<p class="note"><b>Important</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;This sample requires Visual Studio Professional&nbsp;2012 or Visual Studio&nbsp;2013 and won't compile in Microsoft Visual Studio Express&nbsp;2013 for Windows.</p>
<ol>
<li>Start Visual Studio Professional&nbsp;2012 or Visual Studio&nbsp;2013 and select <b>File &gt; Open &gt; Project/Solution</b>.
</li><li>Go to the directory in which you unzipped the sample. Go to the directory named for the sample, and double-click the Microsoft Visual Studio Solution (.sln) file.
</li><li>Press F7 (or F6 for Visual Studio&nbsp;2013) or use <b>Build &gt; Build Solution</b> to build the sample.
</li></ol>
<p><b>For C#</b>: Before you build this sample, you must download and install the
<a href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=160560">Windows API Code Pack for Microsoft .NET Framework</a>. This provides a source code library that can be used to access some features of Windows&nbsp;8.1, Windows&nbsp;7, and Windows&nbsp;Vista from managed code.</p>
<h3>Run the sample</h3>
<p>To debug the app and then run it, press F5 or use <b>Debug &gt; Start Debugging</b>. To run the app without debugging, press Ctrl&#43;F5 or use
<b>Debug &gt; Start Without Debugging</b>.</p>
<h3><a id="How_to_use_the_sample"></a><a id="how_to_use_the_sample"></a><a id="HOW_TO_USE_THE_SAMPLE"></a>How to use the sample</h3>
<p>In the sample window, click the <b>View Text Toast</b> button. A sample toast notification appears on the screen.</p>
<p>As the user, there are three actions you can take: </p>
<ul>
<li>Touch or click the toast. In a real-world app, this would commonly launch the associated app.
</li><li>Horizontally swipe the toast to dismiss it. </li><li>Do nothing. The toast will time out. </li></ul>
<p></p>
<p>The action you take will be displayed in the sample window to demonstrate the receipt of the event. In a real-world situation, your app would respond appropriately to each of these events.</p>
<p>Be aware that for a desktop app to be able to display toast notifications, that app must have a shortcut on the Start screen as this sample does. That shortcut must have an
<a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/dd378459">AppUserModelID</a>.</p>
</div>
